A product vision or North Star is the ultimate goal
of what you want your users to do or accomplish with your product.
OKRs or Objectives and Key Results is
a goal-setting framework used by companies to
centralize the definition in tracking of objectives.
It was first introduced and implemented by Andy Grove at Intel in 1983.
It's popularity is growing even bigger today,
leveraged by companies large and small,
including Google, LinkedIn, Twitter, Uber, and Zendesk.
Product teams should have one to several sets of
OKRs to help them build the right things for their users.
OKRs could be set on any time period,
but typically on a scale that where change could happen,
either on quarters like Q1 or Q2,
halves like H1 or H2, or even years.
An objective is a clearly defined goal.
It does not have to be rigidly quantitative.
For example, the growth product management team
at Slack may have the following objective for
2020: have a higher proportion of group chat
software market share compared to Microsoft Teams.
Key results are measurable metric targets that
directly influence the success of the objective.
Key results could be both quantitative or qualitative.
Going back to one of our objectives with Slack,
from our user research and data analysis,
we noticed that there is a direct correlation in market share based on product renewals,
online reviews, and ability to synchronize with other Cloud ecosystems.
Hence as a result of this,
one key result could be partner with and launch three app integrations with Microsoft,
so users don't have to switch over to Microsoft Teams if they
already rely heavily on Microsoft's other products in their workflows.
Another key result could be drive up annual renewals to 82 to 89 percent.
The last key result could be to redesign the admin onboarding flow to get
the average high MRR company to get
fully up and running in five days instead of the average four weeks,
to improve the negative reviews of implementation costs.
So you can have any number of key results for each objective.
Typically, I've found that two to four is a sweet spot,
as you don't want to have too many where you're not able to truly focus,
and you don't want to have only one either because your objectives are
oftentimes multifaceted and need to be attacked by multiple angles.
Key results don't explicitly state what features you launch,
but rather the features,
products, enhancements, and optimizations that
will be built as a result of the key results you layout.
Here are some more hypothetical examples from other companies.
At Salesforce, let's say you're a product manager for
apps enablement and objective for this half of the year, H1,
would be to stabilize the app framework so that
external developers developing for Salesforce incur less breaking changes,
less API outages, and faster time
to develop and launch your apps on the Salesforce Marketplace.
A key result could be to migrate the remaining 30 percent of external developers
from leveraging v4 to v5 of
the app framework so that you could officially deprecate the former,
which is now buggy and unsupported.
Another key result could be to reduce the number of 303s or server-side errors